[Music]
listen closely I think I hear that giant
sucking sound that's right you probably
heard that quote before and today what
we are seeing is a big change in
relation to that you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you you
probably remember that sound that giant
sucking sound Ross perau talking about
this suggesting that when they set up
these free trade agreements that the
jobs are going to go to Mexico they're
going to go over sees and what did we
see of course the manufacturing jobs
strong jobs tended to leave did you know
that during the financial crisis we had
GM other companies they get these
bailouts billions of dollars and what
did they do with that they started
opening up factories overseas they took
your tax dollars and put them overseas
so that they can make sure that their
profits would be continuing to rise
at your expense how does that make you
feel oh don't worry they paid their debt
back sure well I want to look at what's
happening with manufacturing because
that is an important indicator of what's
happening because we despite the fact
that that is obviously shrinking we can
see that there is a trend and there's a
couple things happening an interesting
Dynamic and I want to bring that to you
today and that's going to explain what's
going on in the economy and that will
affect your job your business so let's
again right here where we're looking at
information coming out of the fed and
they're taking this data from all over
the place and they kind of break that
down here look at this chemical
manufacturing computer and electronic
product manufacturing fabricated metal
food manufacturing Furniture Machinery
so on and so forth looking through all
of this links are in the description
under the sources if you want to read it
for yourself they all say the same thing
slow down we're slowing down not as much
purchases this isn't what it was before
there's definitely slowness here one way
set it one way or another they're all
basically suggesting the same thing it
wasn't what it once was you have the
data the charts manufacturing looking at
it Contracting what about this one oh
look on production and volume new orders
both of these Contracting looking at the
prices paid for raw materials and
receive finished goods both of these
have been moving in a
downtrend well what's going on there's
been actually a change a positive change
so while we have this contraction the
spending the amount of money that's
being spent on Manufacturing in the
United States has improved one of the
reasons for that is the chips Act and
the chips act basically is trying to get
semiconductor companies to build and and
manufacturer process that in the United
States and so they would be able to um
do so for many reasons of course you
don't want to be reliant on another
country or at least entirely Reliant why
is that well we learned during 2020 how
dangerous that could be but at the same
time what I'm seeing here is that they
want it for national security purposes
so we build the chips where we live so
that we don't have to worry about what
could happen in in a you know particular
scenario you get the point American
manufacturing companies ramped up
construction of new factories this year
especially working especially hard at
building semiconductor facilities also
erecting new factories for food and
beverage processing chemicals and
Plastics and then it goes to the next
level right because what they're saying
is called near Shoring they call this
near Shoring and that's essentially
let's open up a factory in Mexico versus
China why well we're friendly with
Mexico despite you know some different
differences that Spite a little back and
forth it's no different than what's
experienced with Canada in the United
States too well then they also have you
know the so-called friend Shoring or
politically aligned countries with the
United States instead of relying
entirely on China what about Europe
relying entirely on Russia that's not
really a good idea right especially with
what they've done over this period so
looking at this you have to understand
the big changes going in but they are so
far behind decades behind and they would
really need to ramp up and they would
spend a lot of money and still be way
behind so they've got to get things in
order real fast and work on the most
important aspects first and then go in
order whether we get that or not I'm not
so sure but take this okay because what
we're seeing right now is a divide in
between the east and west and you can
obviously tell that China and the US
aren't too friendly with each other
despite of course China's leader coming
to the US and saying hey let's make a
deal let's work everything out you know
there's serious problems and there's
long-term issues that won't be resolved
here by simply opening up a factory in a
in inside the United States looking at
more charts you can just see this the uh
Dallas fed manufacturing Outlook level
of General business activity down down
down this has been down basically for
two years all right every single month
down this entire time in a contraction
so we know that there is a problem well
what happened here built built too much
stuff imported too much stuff there was
no demand the demand wasn't there let's
get it going let's get it going oh and
now we've got you know all these U yoga
pant are just sitting here doing nothing
us Imports on the decline strong
consumer demand keeps supply chain
afloat yeah it depends on where you look
look during Black Friday during Cyber
Monday there was demand but what kind of
demand was it well they were buying
Necessities they were buying food they
were buying clothing they were not
buying the 67 in flat screen TVs they
weren't fighting each other I saw a
video of I think it was a Best Buy where
typically you'd see the doors open and
people trampling each other ripping each
other's hair out you know all this
craziness this year they open the doors
and one guy walked on through nice and
slow and
Casual on to buy whatever he needed to
buy people are buying certainly the
deals are stretched out number one there
it's like you know Black Friday month
it's like Cyber Monday
month but at the same time also they're
doing a lot of shopping on online and
that's what's changed here but know what
they're buying it's not what we saw
before that tells us something and of
course connecting with this dire
scenario for Shipping Lines more likely
as spot rates fall back one thing after
another I've connected all the Dots here
the consumer way too much inventory
production not only is it not there
doesn't seem to be needed and at the
same time the shipping we're looking at
this data right here all connected in
these dots explaining very clearly that
there is a lack of demand some would
call that a
recession but we can't say that
word oops all right what you got to do
right now is you've got to check out the
information that I have available to you
on my website it's all free you go here
the money gps.com the link is in the
description you're going to get compass
for free free that's a free financial
education course real simple people
would charge money for this people you
know you're not going to get anything
like that at your financial advisor all
of that is available right here to you
for free I've got money pickle on there
so you can get uh a cfp or a fiduciary
to take a look at your financial
circumstances and of course Seeking
Alpha as well all of these things right
here in that link in the description
don't forget to check that out support
the channel and right here and now you
could see the comment of the day giant
retailers heavily over ordered during
2020 when prices were seriously High
there was always going to be a
correction like this and that is very
true I want to thank you for your
comment each and every day I got the
best commenters coming through um and I
appreciate you coming in if you're been
here for 10 years or if you have been
here just a week I want to thank you um
we are seeing some conditions changing
and I want you to get the best
information possible each and every day
I will bring you that don't worry I will
bring you what is I'm sifting through
like literally hours a day trying to get
you the best stuff hit that thumbs up if
you appreciate this Channel and of
course don't forget to come back
tomorrow I'll give you the best take
care